---
layout: post
title: Dialects
---

{% blockquote fat http://byfat.xxx/chomsky Chomsky can’t be bothered to learn C %}

The first, as an author, don’t be afraid to stray from any
given dialect, even if it means more work for you. But do so only
insofar as you want to shelter your project from engineers
_unwilling_ to
invest in core modes of thinking that you deem necessary to grasp in
contributing to the ideas of your project.

The second, as a potential contributor, it’s perfectly ok to be opposed
to the ideas of a project, but don’t allow yourself to write something
off at the level of dialect.

{% endblockquote %}

Emphasis mine.

Fat's observations about Chomsky's dismissal of postmodernism are great
points to consider for any academic, but I'd say expecially important
for any academic in the Digital Humanities, given the wealth of problems
regarding to which theories to employ, which programming languages to
learn, which tools to use, and so on. Choices we make about all these
things invariably shelter our work from others unfamiliar with those
dialects, and/or unwilling to engage them. Every citation increases the
workload for others reading our work, as does every line of code. Making
something open source or open access doesn't, in and of itself, help
here. It simply helps people more quickly see what they have to know to
participate. We shouldn't be afraid of these things, apologize for them, or stop doing
them necessarily. But we should be aware of their implications when we create and
share our work.

I should be more aware of this as an author. I find the balance between
streamlining my workflows and enabling/encouraging the shared use of and
contribution to my projects quite difficult. For example, I've started
using [Sass][sass], [Compass][compass], and [Susy][susy] for most of my
CSS development. They're terrific tools, and I think using them is
worthwhile, because they makes so many things easier (for me) for
progressively-enhanced, cross-browser development. But it also sets the
bar higher for others who wish to contribute that work. It is by no
means insurmountable, but it does require a willingness to invest in it.
It also requires a willingness on my part, the part of the author, to
make more clear why I've added those tools to my dialect.

I should also do more as a contributor to not so easily dismiss work simply
because I am not familiar with its dialect. More importantly, though, I
shouldn't simply scoff at the presence of an unfamiliar dialect. I should be
willing to invest in learning any dialect when I think the ideas are worth
engaging. That's good academic citizenship.

[sass]: http://sass-lang.com
[compass]: http://compass-style.com
[susy]: http://susy.oddbird.net
